about.md, before:

<!-- START_METADATA
---
title: About Vipps MobilePay
sidebar_label: About us
sidebar_position: 100
pagination_next: null
pagination_prev: null
---
END_METADATA -->

# About us

<!-- START_COMMENT -->

ℹ️ Please use the website:
[Vipps MobilePay Technical Documentation](https://developer.vippsmobilepay.com/).

<!-- END_COMMENT -->

Vipps and MobilePay have recently merged and the documentation is currently being updated.

To learn about the merger, see [Vipps MobilePay er nå en realitet](https://vipps.no/om-oss/nyheter/vipps-mobilepay-er-n%C3%A5-en-realitet/) (in Norwegian). Excerpt translated to English:

> From today, the new Nordic payment challenger, Vipps MobilePay, is officially in place. - Now we can finally begin the journey towards making Nordic payments even easier, says the now Nordic payments manager, Rune Garborg.
1.11.2022

For more information about Vipps MobilePay, see [vippsmobilepay.com](https://vippsmobilepay.com/#about).


Most MobilePay developer information is still found on the
[MobilePay developers website](https://developer.mobilepay.dk/), but this will be updated soon.

If you need help with MobilePay information, see [MobilePay Developer Support](https://developer.mobilepay.dk/docs/support). For help with Vipps, see [Vipps support](contact.md#vipps-support).

Commit message:

Link to common contact page, some text tweaks (#300)
* Link to common contact page, some text tweaks

* Update about.md

---------

Co-authored-by: Rebeka Burnett <104833234+rebekaburnett@users.noreply.github.com>

about.md, after:

<!-- START_METADATA
---
title: About Vipps MobilePay
sidebar_label: About us
sidebar_position: 100
pagination_next: null
pagination_prev: null
---
END_METADATA -->

# About us

<!-- START_COMMENT -->

ℹ️ Please use the website:
[Vipps MobilePay Technical Documentation](https://developer.vippsmobilepay.com/).

<!-- END_COMMENT -->

Vipps and MobilePay merged in November 2022 and our documentation is being updated.

To learn about the merger, see
[Vipps MobilePay er nå en realitet](https://vipps.no/om-oss/nyheter/vipps-mobilepay-er-n%C3%A5-en-realitet/)
(in Norwegian). Excerpt translated to English:

> From today, the new Nordic payment challenger, Vipps MobilePay, is officially in place. - Now we can finally begin the journey towards making Nordic payments even easier, says the now Nordic payments manager, Rune Garborg.
1.11.2022

For more information about Vipps MobilePay, see [vippsmobilepay.com](https://vippsmobilepay.com/#about).

Most MobilePay developer information is still found on the
[MobilePay developers website](https://developer.mobilepay.dk/),
but will be moved to this website soon.

If you need help using the Vipps MobilePay APIs or other technical development:
[Contact us](contact.md).
