mp-migration-guide.md, before:

<!-- START_METADATA
---
title: MobilePay migration guide
sidebar_label: Migration guide
sidebar_position: 10
pagination_next: null
pagination_prev: null
draft: false
---
END_METADATA -->

# Migration guide

<!-- START_COMMENT -->

ℹ️ Please use the website:
[Vipps MobilePay Technical Documentation](https://developer.vippsmobilepay.com/).

<!-- END_COMMENT -->

💥 Work in progress 💥

A quick summary of key facts and shortcuts for our APIs​.

## Subscriptions vs. Recurring

API documentation:
* [Access token API](https://developer.vippsmobilepay.com/docs/APIs/access-token-api)
* [ePayment API](https://vippsas.github.io/vipps-developer-docs/docs/APIs/epayment-api)
* [Recurring API](https://vippsas.github.io/vipps-developer-docs/docs/APIs/recurring-api)
* [MobilePay Subscriptions API](https://developer.mobilepay.dk/api/subscriptions)

### Agreement

See:
[Agreements](https://vippsas.github.io/vipps-developer-docs/docs/APIs/recurring-api/vipps-recurring-api#agreements).

| MOBILEPAY AGREEMENT               ​ | VIPPS MOBILEPAY AGREEMENT​                                                                              |
|------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `Description ​`                     | `productDescription​`                                                                                   |
| `Amount​`                           | `pricing: { "type"("LEGACY" => amount ,"VARIABLE" => suggestedMaxAmount), "currency"("NOK") }`        ​ |
| `Frequency​`                        | `interval: { "unit"("YEAR" "MONTH" "WEEK" "DAY"), "count"([1..31]) }`                                 ​ |
| `Links`: [`user-redirect`, `success-callback`, `cancel-callback`, `cancel-redirect`]  | `merchantRedirectUrl` + `merchantAgreementUrl​`      |
| `Plan​`                             | `productName​`                                                                                          |
| `mobile_phone_number​`              | `phoneNumber​`                                                                                          |
| `external_id​`                      | `externalId​` |
| `currency​`                         | ?​ |
| `country_code​`                     | ?​ |
| `expiration_timeout_minutes​`       | ?​ |
| `retention_period_hours​`           | ?​ |
| `disable_notification_management​`  | ?​ |
| `notifications_on​`                 | ?​ |
| ?​                                  | `scope` (Space separated list of the user profile-data scope to require for the agreement)​             |
| ?​                                  | `isApp` (If merchant is redirecting user from an app or a mobile device)​                               |
| ?​                                  | `skipLandingPage` (`True` = skip landing page by sending notification directly to user)​                |

### Charges

See:
[Charges](https://vippsas.github.io/vipps-developer-docs/docs/APIs/recurring-api/vipps-recurring-api#charges).

| MOBILEPAY ONE-OFF​                    | VIPPS MOBILEPAY INITIAL CHARGE​                                                                 |
|--------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `Amount` (kroner.øre)               ​ | `Amount` (øre)​                                                                                 |
| `External_id​`                        | `OrderId` (if NULL → autogenerated)​                                                           |
| `Description​`                        | `Description​`                                                                                  |
| `Expiration_timeout_minutes​`         | ?​                                                                                              |
| ?​                                    | `transactionType` (`RESERVE_CAPTURE`, `DIRECT_CAPTURE`)​                                        |
|                                      |  |
| MOBILEPAY RESPONSE FROM AGREEMENT    | VIPPS MOBILEPAY RESPONSE FROM AGREEMENT                                                        |
| `Id`                                 | `agreementId`                                                                                  |
| `links["rel", "href"]`               | `vippsConfirmationUrl`                                                                         |
| `one_off_payment_id`                 | `chargeId`                                                                                     |

## Invoice vs. ePayment

See:
* [ePayment API](https://vippsas.github.io/vipps-developer-docs/docs/APIs/epayment-api)
* [Extend payment time-outs](https://developer.vippsmobilepay.com/docs/vipps-solutions/long-expiry-time-for-payments-to-merchants)

| MOBILEPAY INVOICE​                    | VIPPS MOBILEPAY EPAYMENT​                                                                        |
|--------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `InvoiceIssuer​`                      | `Merchant-Serial-Number` (Header in request)                                                   ​ |
| `ConsumerAlias {Alias, AliasType}`  ​ | `Customer {Alias} (Example: 4512345678)`                                                        |
| `TotalAmount​`                        | `Amount {currency, value(øre)}​`                                                                 |
| `InvoiceNumber` / `PaymentReference​` | `reference` / `paymentDescription`                                                             ​ |
| `DueDate​`                            | `expiresAt` (10min → 28 days. Example: 2023-02-26T17:32:28)​                                    |
| (`InvoiceLink`) `RedirectUrl`       ​ | `returnUrl` (The URL the user is redirected to after the payment session).​                      |
| `Comment​`                            | ?​ |
| `ConsumerAddressLines []`            | ?​ |
| `DeliveryAddressLines []`            | ?​ |
| `ConsumerName​`                       | ?​ |
| `TotalVATAmount​`                     | ?​ |
| `IssueDate`                          | ?​ |
| `OrderDate`                          | ?​ |
| `OrderDate`                          | ?​ |
| `DeliveryDate​`                       | ?​ |
| `MerchantContactName`                | ?​ |
| `MerchantOrderNumber`                | ?​ |
| `BuyerOrderNumber​`                   | ?​ |
| `InvoiceUrl`+ `InvoiceArticles []`​   | See [Order Management API](https://developer.vippsmobilepay.com/docs/APIs/order-management-api) |
| ?                                   ​ | `paymentDescription​`                                                                            |
| ?​                                    | `profile` (scope)​                                                                               |
| ?                                   ​ | `paymentMethod` (`WALLET` or `CARD`. `CARD` → WEB_REDIRECT)​                                    |
| ?​                                    | `userFlow` (`Push_message`, `Native_redirect`, `Web_redirect`, `QR`)                           ​ |
| ?​                                    | `qrFormat {format, size}` (only applicable when `userFlow` is set to `QR`)                         ​ |
| ?​                                    | `customerInteraction` (`Customer_present`, `Customer_not_present`)​                              |
| ?​                                    | `industryData` (Additional compliance data related to the transaction)​                          |


<!-- START_COMMENT -->

## Point of Sale vs. ePayment

See:
[ePayment API](https://vippsas.github.io/vipps-developer-docs/docs/APIs/epayment-api).

| Point of Sale                                          ​ | EPAYMENT                     |
|---------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------|
| **InitiatePayment**                                     |                              |
| `Authorization` *(Header parameter used in all requests)* | `Ocp-Apim-Subscription-Key`  |
| `X-MobilePay-Client-System-Version` *(Header parameter used in all requests)* |          |
| `X-MobilePay-Idempotency-Key`                           |                              |
| `X-MobilePay-Merchant-VAT-Number`                       |                              |
| `Amount`                                                |                              |
| `currencyCode`                                          |                              |
| `orderId`                                               |                              |
| `plannedCaptureDelay`                                   |                              |
| `posId`                                                 |                              |
| `restrictions`                                          |                              |
| `merchantPaymentLabel`                                  |                              |
|                                                         |                              |
| **InitiatePayment Response**                            |                              |
| `PaymentId`                                             |                              |
|                                                         |                              |
| **QueryPayment**                                        |                              |
| `paymentid`                                             |                              |
| `Authorization`                                         |                              |
| `X-MobilePay-Client-System-Version`                     |                              |
| `X-MobilePay-Merchant-VAT-Number`                       |                              |
| `QueryPayment Response`                                 |                              |
|                                                         |                              |
| **QueryPaymentIds**                                     |                              |
| `posId`                                                 | `Ocp-Apim-Subscription-Key`  |
| `orderId`                                               |                              |
| `state`                                                 |                              |
|                                                         |                              |
| **QueryPaymentIds Response**                            |                              |
| `PaymentIds: [ ]`                                       |                              |
|                                                         |                              |
| **QueryPayment**                                        |                              |
| `paymentid`                                             |                              |
| `Authorization`                                         |                              |
| `X-MobilePay-Client-System-Version`                     |                              |
| `X-MobilePay-Merchant-VAT-Number`                       |                              |

<!-- END_COMMENT -->

Commit message:

Add introduction to the migration guide

mp-migration-guide.md, after:

<!-- START_METADATA
---
title: MobilePay migration guide
sidebar_label: Migration guide
sidebar_position: 10
pagination_next: null
pagination_prev: null
draft: false
---
END_METADATA -->

# Migration guide


💥 Work in progress 💥

Are you currently using MobilePay APIs for your payment integration needs?

In that case, we’re excited to introduce you to Vipps MobilePay APIs, a reliable and versatile payment solution that can make the migration hassle-free and even dazzle you with its ease of use and features.
To ensure a smooth transition, we recommend using our comprehensive migration guide, which will provide step-by-step instructions and best practices for integrating with Vipps MobilePay APIs.

This document is still under development.
Here is a quick summary of key facts and shortcuts for our APIs​.

## Subscriptions vs. Recurring

API documentation:

* [Access token API](https://developer.vippsmobilepay.com/docs/APIs/access-token-api)
* [ePayment API](https://vippsas.github.io/vipps-developer-docs/docs/APIs/epayment-api)
* [Recurring API](https://vippsas.github.io/vipps-developer-docs/docs/APIs/recurring-api)
* [MobilePay Subscriptions API](https://developer.mobilepay.dk/api/subscriptions)

### Agreement

See:
[Agreements](https://vippsas.github.io/vipps-developer-docs/docs/APIs/recurring-api/vipps-recurring-api#agreements).

| MOBILEPAY AGREEMENT               ​ | VIPPS MOBILEPAY AGREEMENT​                                                                              |
|------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `Description ​`                     | `productDescription​`                                                                                   |
| `Amount​`                           | `pricing: { "type"("LEGACY" => amount ,"VARIABLE" => suggestedMaxAmount), "currency"("NOK") }`        ​ |
| `Frequency​`                        | `interval: { "unit"("YEAR" "MONTH" "WEEK" "DAY"), "count"([1..31]) }`                                 ​ |
| `Links`: [`user-redirect`, `success-callback`, `cancel-callback`, `cancel-redirect`]  | `merchantRedirectUrl` + `merchantAgreementUrl​`      |
| `Plan​`                             | `productName​`                                                                                          |
| `mobile_phone_number​`              | `phoneNumber​`                                                                                          |
| `external_id​`                      | `externalId​` |
| `currency​`                         | ?​ |
| `country_code​`                     | ?​ |
| `expiration_timeout_minutes​`       | ?​ |
| `retention_period_hours​`           | ?​ |
| `disable_notification_management​`  | ?​ |
| `notifications_on​`                 | ?​ |
| ?​                                  | `scope` (Space separated list of the user profile-data scope to require for the agreement)​             |
| ?​                                  | `isApp` (If merchant is redirecting user from an app or a mobile device)​                               |
| ?​                                  | `skipLandingPage` (`True` = skip landing page by sending notification directly to user)​                |

### Charges

See:
[Charges](https://vippsas.github.io/vipps-developer-docs/docs/APIs/recurring-api/vipps-recurring-api#charges).

| MOBILEPAY ONE-OFF​                    | VIPPS MOBILEPAY INITIAL CHARGE​                                                                 |
|--------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `Amount` (kroner.øre)               ​ | `Amount` (øre)​                                                                                 |
| `External_id​`                        | `OrderId` (if NULL → autogenerated)​                                                           |
| `Description​`                        | `Description​`                                                                                  |
| `Expiration_timeout_minutes​`         | ?​                                                                                              |
| ?​                                    | `transactionType` (`RESERVE_CAPTURE`, `DIRECT_CAPTURE`)​                                        |
|                                      |  |
| MOBILEPAY RESPONSE FROM AGREEMENT    | VIPPS MOBILEPAY RESPONSE FROM AGREEMENT                                                        |
| `Id`                                 | `agreementId`                                                                                  |
| `links["rel", "href"]`               | `vippsConfirmationUrl`                                                                         |
| `one_off_payment_id`                 | `chargeId`                                                                                     |

## Invoice vs. ePayment

See:
* [ePayment API](https://vippsas.github.io/vipps-developer-docs/docs/APIs/epayment-api)
* [Extend payment time-outs](https://developer.vippsmobilepay.com/docs/vipps-solutions/long-expiry-time-for-payments-to-merchants)

| MOBILEPAY INVOICE​                    | VIPPS MOBILEPAY EPAYMENT​                                                                        |
|--------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `InvoiceIssuer​`                      | `Merchant-Serial-Number` (Header in request)                                                   ​ |
| `ConsumerAlias {Alias, AliasType}`  ​ | `Customer {Alias} (Example: 4512345678)`                                                        |
| `TotalAmount​`                        | `Amount {currency, value(øre)}​`                                                                 |
| `InvoiceNumber` / `PaymentReference​` | `reference` / `paymentDescription`                                                             ​ |
| `DueDate​`                            | `expiresAt` (10min → 28 days. Example: 2023-02-26T17:32:28)​                                    |
| (`InvoiceLink`) `RedirectUrl`       ​ | `returnUrl` (The URL the user is redirected to after the payment session).​                      |
| `Comment​`                            | ?​ |
| `ConsumerAddressLines []`            | ?​ |
| `DeliveryAddressLines []`            | ?​ |
| `ConsumerName​`                       | ?​ |
| `TotalVATAmount​`                     | ?​ |
| `IssueDate`                          | ?​ |
| `OrderDate`                          | ?​ |
| `OrderDate`                          | ?​ |
| `DeliveryDate​`                       | ?​ |
| `MerchantContactName`                | ?​ |
| `MerchantOrderNumber`                | ?​ |
| `BuyerOrderNumber​`                   | ?​ |
| `InvoiceUrl`+ `InvoiceArticles []`​   | See [Order Management API](https://developer.vippsmobilepay.com/docs/APIs/order-management-api) |
| ?                                   ​ | `paymentDescription​`                                                                            |
| ?​                                    | `profile` (scope)​                                                                               |
| ?                                   ​ | `paymentMethod` (`WALLET` or `CARD`. `CARD` → WEB_REDIRECT)​                                    |
| ?​                                    | `userFlow` (`Push_message`, `Native_redirect`, `Web_redirect`, `QR`)                           ​ |
| ?​                                    | `qrFormat {format, size}` (only applicable when `userFlow` is set to `QR`)                         ​ |
| ?​                                    | `customerInteraction` (`Customer_present`, `Customer_not_present`)​                              |
| ?​                                    | `industryData` (Additional compliance data related to the transaction)​                          |


<!-- START_COMMENT -->

## Point of Sale vs. ePayment

See:
[ePayment API](https://vippsas.github.io/vipps-developer-docs/docs/APIs/epayment-api).

| Point of Sale                                          ​ | EPAYMENT                     |
|---------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------|
| **InitiatePayment**                                     |                              |
| `Authorization` *(Header parameter used in all requests)* | `Ocp-Apim-Subscription-Key`  |
| `X-MobilePay-Client-System-Version` *(Header parameter used in all requests)* |          |
| `X-MobilePay-Idempotency-Key`                           |                              |
| `X-MobilePay-Merchant-VAT-Number`                       |                              |
| `Amount`                                                |                              |
| `currencyCode`                                          |                              |
| `orderId`                                               |                              |
| `plannedCaptureDelay`                                   |                              |
| `posId`                                                 |                              |
| `restrictions`                                          |                              |
| `merchantPaymentLabel`                                  |                              |
|                                                         |                              |
| **InitiatePayment Response**                            |                              |
| `PaymentId`                                             |                              |
|                                                         |                              |
| **QueryPayment**                                        |                              |
| `paymentid`                                             |                              |
| `Authorization`                                         |                              |
| `X-MobilePay-Client-System-Version`                     |                              |
| `X-MobilePay-Merchant-VAT-Number`                       |                              |
| `QueryPayment Response`                                 |                              |
|                                                         |                              |
| **QueryPaymentIds**                                     |                              |
| `posId`                                                 | `Ocp-Apim-Subscription-Key`  |
| `orderId`                                               |                              |
| `state`                                                 |                              |
|                                                         |                              |
| **QueryPaymentIds Response**                            |                              |
| `PaymentIds: [ ]`                                       |                              |
|                                                         |                              |
| **QueryPayment**                                        |                              |
| `paymentid`                                             |                              |
| `Authorization`                                         |                              |
| `X-MobilePay-Client-System-Version`                     |                              |
| `X-MobilePay-Merchant-VAT-Number`                       |                              |

<!-- END_COMMENT -->
