settlements/sftp-report-service/README.md, before:

---
title: SFTP Report (Deprecated)
sidebar_position: 60
hide_table_of_contents: false
pagination_next: null
pagination_prev: null
---

# SFTP Report  (Deprecated)

🔥 *The SFTP service is deprecated and will be unavailable from March 1, 2024.* 🔥

The SFTP service is now deprecated, as announced in the
[Technical Newsletter for Developers 2023-10](https://developer.vippsmobilepay.com/docs/newsletters/2023-10-newsletter/#deprecation-of-the-sftp-service).

Please use the [Report API](https://developer.vippsmobilepay.com/docs/APIs/report-api/)
to get your settlement files programmatically. With this API, you can get daily or continuous-feed reports for your accounts.
See the [Report API guide](https://developer.vippsmobilepay.com/docs/APIs/report-api/api-guide/) for details.


<details>
<summary>Deprecated SFTP Report guide</summary>
<div>

## Overview

The SFTP report service is used for downloading and retrieval of settlement files with SFTP.

For an overview of SFTP, see
[SFTP File Transfer Protocol - get SFTP client & server](https://www.ssh.com/ssh/sftp/).

More information about SFTP and the underlying technology:
[SSH File Transfer Protocol](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SSH_File_Transfer_Protocol).

## Reports

Each sales unit (i.e., Merchant Serial Number (MSN)) has its own set of settlement reports.
It is not possible to aggregate reports from multiple sales units into one report.

There will never be more than one new file per sales unit each
day (but there may be none).

**Please note:** There will be no settlement reports for dates without completed
payments and a positive balance. In these cases, neither the settlement files
nor the directories that should have contained settlement files will exist.

Settlements are created every day while the balance is positive.
See [Settlements overview: Availability](../README.md#availability)
for more details.

### Security

For the SFTP service, the public SSH key must be added by logging in with BankID on
[portal.vipps.no](https://portal.vipps.no).
We don't sign the reports in any way.

### SFTP users

All merchants can set up SFTP on [portal.vipps.no](https://portal.vipps.no).
A public SSH key must be provided.

SFTP users are created, associated with a public SSH key, and given access to
the reports of all the merchant's sales units (i.e., MSNs).

It is possible to use the same public SSH key for multiple merchants,
and for multiple MSNs.

### Generate a public SSH key

We support RSA (minimum 2048-bit), EdDSA and Ed25519 keys in OpenSSH format.
We reject DSA keys.

A key is typically created with this command (replace `user@example.com`
with your real email address):

```bash
ssh-keygen -t ed25519 -C "user@example.com"
```

For help creating SSH keys, see
[GitHub: Generating a new SSH key](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/connecting-to-github-with-ssh/generating-a-new-ssh-key-and-adding-it-to-the-ssh-agent#generating-a-new-ssh-key).

To give a partner (e.g., accounting partner or ERP partner)
access to your reports, you may need an SSH key from your partner. See
[Partner access](#partner-access).

A public SSH key is normally stored in the user's home directory:
`~/.ssh/id_ed25519.pub`:

Example:

```bash
ssh-ed25519 AAAAC3NzaC1lZDI1NTE5AAAAIOu1WvDcTWwZumZZwTvfqUKMA4ouG3mniNsvpNWorm5m user@example.com
```

### Add the SSH key on the Merchant portal

1. Log in with BankID to
   [portal.vipps.no](https://portal.vipps.no)
   and select the *Utvikler* section.
   If you only have *Vippsnummer*, you will find a link to SFTP setup under
   *Rapporter og tall* (i.e., *Reports and numbers*).
2. Click the tab *SFTP Access* to add users for SFTP access.
3. Add the public key(s) for the user(s) to give access.
   After this, you should see the newly created user.

This is what it looks like on [portal.vipps.no](https://portal.vipps.no):

![User setup](images/02_bruker_opprettet.png "User setup")

**Please note:**

* We can't add the SSH key for you.
* We can't test the SSH key for you.
* If you do not have BankID, or you do not have the required permissions
  to add the SSH key, you will need the administrator to do it for you, or
  to update your permissions on
  [portal.vipps.no](https://portal.vipps.no).
* The administrator can create additional users on
  [portal.vipps.no](https://portal.vipps.no).
* If you don't know who the administrator is, you can check
  [Brønnøysundregistrene](https://www.brreg.no)
  and see who has the right to sign for the company.

### Partner access

A merchant can give a partner, like an accounting partner or ERP partner,
access to the SFTP service, so the settlement reports can be automatically imported.

Partners may provide their merchants with a public SSH key
that the merchants can use to give the partner access their settlements.

A merchant may have multiple MSNs, and give several partners access to
one or more of them independently.

This is the recommended way:

1. The partner provides a public SSH key to the merchant.
2. The merchant adds the SSH key on [portal.vipps.no](https://portal.vipps.no)
3. The partner retrieves the settlement reports with SFTP

**Please note:** This public SSH key does not have to be secret.
To be able to retrieve the reports it is also necessary to have the
*private* SSH key.
We recommend that partners use the same SSH key for all their merchants.

### How to use the SFTP server

The SFTP server should be straight-forward to use.
It works like a normal SFTP service.

#### Important information

**Important:** Please read this to avoid misunderstandings:

* The reports are generated on-demand. There are no real files on the server, and
  all data is generated dynamically.
* When you `get` a file, or `mget` multiple files, the server will automatically
  create the requested file(s).
* Some SFTP clients check the file size with a `ls` command first.
  Since the files do not exist until the `get` or `mget` command is sent, the file size
  reported by the server is zero bytes.
  The SFTP service can't provide correct size information, since there is no real file.
  It is therefore not possible to check the size of a file with `ls`.
  If this causes problems for your SFTP client, the solution is to use a different client.
* Some SFTP clients do not "see" the directories and require the
  full path of the directories to be explicitly provided.
* Reports under `/settlements/inbox` can be deleted by using the `rm` command in
  SFTP or the "delete" function in your SFTP interface.
  The files are not really deleted, but actually hidden by moving them to
  `/settlements/archive`, in order to keep track of already processed reports.
* Reports under `/settlements/archive` can't be removed.

### Connecting to the SFTP server

This is a standard SFTP service, and the address of the SFTP server is `sftp.vipps.no`.

When connecting to the SFTP server, you must supply the username you created.
In the image above, this is "hakon".

We recommend
[SFTP File Transfer Protocol - get SFTP client & server](https://www.ssh.com/ssh/sftp/)
for an overview.

**Please note:** We may change the IP addresses of `sftp.vipps.no`.
To ensure that you are whitelisting the correct IP addresses please use the
hostname and DNS, and automatically update your firewall rules if there are DNS changes.

### Directory structure

This is the directory structure (where `[alternative1|alternative2]` indicates two alternatives):

```bash
/settlements/[inbox|archive]/[file extension]/[orgno]/[merchant-serial-number]/[merchant-serial-number]-[settlement-number].[file extension]
```

The `orgno` is the company's organization number, nine digits.
The `merchant-serial-number` (also called MSN) is the unique five or six-digit
ID for the sales unit.

In the examples on this page, the `orgno` is 998724341, and the `merchant-serial-number` is 16655.

Example files, with full path:

```bash
/settlements/inbox/xml/998724341/16655/16655-2000001.xml
/settlements/inbox/pdf/998724341/16655/16655-2000001.pdf
/settlements/archive/csv/998724341/16655/16655-2000001.csv
```

**Please note:**
When a file in `/settlements/inbox` is retrieved, it is automatically
moved to `/settlements/archive`.
See also: [Important information](#important-information).

### Example SFTP session

Below is an example of an SFTP session using the command-line,
with line breaks added for readability.

In this example, the organization number is 998724341 and the MSN is 16655.

Connect to the SFTP service:

```bash
$ sftp sftp.vipps.no
Connected to sftp.vipps.no.
```

Directory listing of the root and `settlements` directories:

```bash
sftp> ls
settlements  

sftp> ls settlements
settlements/archive   
settlements/inbox     
```

Directory listing of the `inbox/`, `inbox/xml/`, `inbox/xml/998724341/`
and `inbox/xml/998724341/16655` directories:

```bash
sftp> ls settlements/inbox
settlements/inbox/csv        
settlements/inbox/pdf        
settlements/inbox/xlsx       
settlements/inbox/xml        
settlements/inbox/xml.zip    

sftp> ls settlements/inbox/xml
settlements/inbox/xml/998724341   

sftp> ls settlements/inbox/xml/998724341
settlements/inbox/xml/998724341/16655    

sftp> ls settlements/inbox/xml/998724341/16655
settlements/inbox/xml/998724341/16655/16655-2000001.xml             
settlements/inbox/xml/998724341/16655/16655-2000002.xml            
settlements/inbox/xml/998724341/16655/16655-2000003.xml             
settlements/inbox/xml/998724341/16655/16655-2000004.xml             
```

Using `mget` to get all the files in the `settlements/inbox/xml/998724341/16655` directory:

```bash
sftp> mget settlements/inbox/xml/998724341/16655/*
Fetching /settlements/inbox/xml/998724341/16655/16655-2000001.xml to 16655-2000001.xml
Fetching /settlements/inbox/xml/998724341/16655/16655-2000002.xml to 16655-2000002.xml
Fetching /settlements/inbox/xml/998724341/16655/16655-2000003.xml to 16655-2000003.xml
Fetching /settlements/inbox/xml/998724341/16655/16655-2000004.xml to 16655-2000004.xml
```

Directory listing in the *local* directory (using the `!` prefix for the `ls` command),
showing the retrieved files, and the `quit` command to end the SFTP session:

```bash
sftp> !ls -1
16655-2000001.xml
16655-2000002.xml
16655-2000003.xml
16655-2000004.xml
sftp> quit
```

All the above is basic SFTP use and should be straight-forward.
If you use a SFTP client, please refer to its user documentation.

</div>
</details>

Commit message:

Use "business" instead of "company"

settlements/sftp-report-service/README.md, after:

---
title: SFTP Report (Deprecated)
sidebar_position: 60
hide_table_of_contents: false
pagination_next: null
pagination_prev: null
---

# SFTP Report  (Deprecated)

🔥 *The SFTP service is deprecated and will be unavailable from March 1, 2024.* 🔥

The SFTP service is now deprecated, as announced in the
[Technical Newsletter for Developers 2023-10](https://developer.vippsmobilepay.com/docs/newsletters/2023-10-newsletter/#deprecation-of-the-sftp-service).

Please use the [Report API](https://developer.vippsmobilepay.com/docs/APIs/report-api/)
to get your settlement files programmatically. With this API, you can get daily or continuous-feed reports for your accounts.
See the [Report API guide](https://developer.vippsmobilepay.com/docs/APIs/report-api/api-guide/) for details.


<details>
<summary>Deprecated SFTP Report guide</summary>
<div>

## Overview

The SFTP report service is used for downloading and retrieval of settlement files with SFTP.

For an overview of SFTP, see
[SFTP File Transfer Protocol - get SFTP client & server](https://www.ssh.com/ssh/sftp/).

More information about SFTP and the underlying technology:
[SSH File Transfer Protocol](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SSH_File_Transfer_Protocol).

## Reports

Each sales unit (i.e., Merchant Serial Number (MSN)) has its own set of settlement reports.
It is not possible to aggregate reports from multiple sales units into one report.

There will never be more than one new file per sales unit each
day (but there may be none).

**Please note:** There will be no settlement reports for dates without completed
payments and a positive balance. In these cases, neither the settlement files
nor the directories that should have contained settlement files will exist.

Settlements are created every day while the balance is positive.
See [Settlements overview: Availability](../README.md#availability)
for more details.

### Security

For the SFTP service, the public SSH key must be added by logging in with BankID on
[portal.vipps.no](https://portal.vipps.no).
We don't sign the reports in any way.

### SFTP users

All merchants can set up SFTP on [portal.vipps.no](https://portal.vipps.no).
A public SSH key must be provided.

SFTP users are created, associated with a public SSH key, and given access to
the reports of all the merchant's sales units (i.e., MSNs).

It is possible to use the same public SSH key for multiple merchants,
and for multiple MSNs.

### Generate a public SSH key

We support RSA (minimum 2048-bit), EdDSA and Ed25519 keys in OpenSSH format.
We reject DSA keys.

A key is typically created with this command (replace `user@example.com`
with your real email address):

```bash
ssh-keygen -t ed25519 -C "user@example.com"
```

For help creating SSH keys, see
[GitHub: Generating a new SSH key](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/connecting-to-github-with-ssh/generating-a-new-ssh-key-and-adding-it-to-the-ssh-agent#generating-a-new-ssh-key).

To give a partner (e.g., accounting partner or ERP partner)
access to your reports, you may need an SSH key from your partner. See
[Partner access](#partner-access).

A public SSH key is normally stored in the user's home directory:
`~/.ssh/id_ed25519.pub`:

Example:

```bash
ssh-ed25519 AAAAC3NzaC1lZDI1NTE5AAAAIOu1WvDcTWwZumZZwTvfqUKMA4ouG3mniNsvpNWorm5m user@example.com
```

### Add the SSH key on the Merchant portal

1. Log in with BankID to
   [portal.vipps.no](https://portal.vipps.no)
   and select the *Utvikler* section.
   If you only have *Vippsnummer*, you will find a link to SFTP setup under
   *Rapporter og tall* (i.e., *Reports and numbers*).
2. Click the tab *SFTP Access* to add users for SFTP access.
3. Add the public key(s) for the user(s) to give access.
   After this, you should see the newly created user.

This is what it looks like on [portal.vipps.no](https://portal.vipps.no):

![User setup](images/02_bruker_opprettet.png "User setup")

**Please note:**

* We can't add the SSH key for you.
* We can't test the SSH key for you.
* If you do not have BankID, or you do not have the required permissions
  to add the SSH key, you will need the administrator to do it for you, or
  to update your permissions on the
  [merchant portal](https://portal.vipps.no).
* The administrator can create additional users on the
  [merchant portal](https://portal.vipps.no).
* If you don't know who the administrator is, you can check the
  [Brønnøysund Register Centre](https://www.brreg.no)
  and see who has the right to sign for the business.

### Partner access

A merchant can give a partner, like an accounting partner or ERP partner,
access to the SFTP service, so the settlement reports can be automatically imported.

Partners may provide their merchants with a public SSH key
that the merchants can use to give the partner access their settlements.

A merchant may have multiple MSNs, and give several partners access to
one or more of them independently.

This is the recommended way:

1. The partner provides a public SSH key to the merchant.
2. The merchant adds the SSH key on [portal.vipps.no](https://portal.vipps.no)
3. The partner retrieves the settlement reports with SFTP

**Please note:** This public SSH key does not have to be secret.
To be able to retrieve the reports it is also necessary to have the
*private* SSH key.
We recommend that partners use the same SSH key for all their merchants.

### How to use the SFTP server

The SFTP server should be straight-forward to use.
It works like a normal SFTP service.

#### Important information

**Important:** Please read this to avoid misunderstandings:

* The reports are generated on-demand. There are no real files on the server, and
  all data is generated dynamically.
* When you `get` a file, or `mget` multiple files, the server will automatically
  create the requested file(s).
* Some SFTP clients check the file size with a `ls` command first.
  Since the files do not exist until the `get` or `mget` command is sent, the file size
  reported by the server is zero bytes.
  The SFTP service can't provide correct size information, since there is no real file.
  It is therefore not possible to check the size of a file with `ls`.
  If this causes problems for your SFTP client, the solution is to use a different client.
* Some SFTP clients do not "see" the directories and require the
  full path of the directories to be explicitly provided.
* Reports under `/settlements/inbox` can be deleted by using the `rm` command in
  SFTP or the "delete" function in your SFTP interface.
  The files are not really deleted, but actually hidden by moving them to
  `/settlements/archive`, in order to keep track of already processed reports.
* Reports under `/settlements/archive` can't be removed.

### Connecting to the SFTP server

This is a standard SFTP service, and the address of the SFTP server is `sftp.vipps.no`.

When connecting to the SFTP server, you must supply the username you created.
In the image above, this is "hakon".

We recommend
[SFTP File Transfer Protocol - get SFTP client & server](https://www.ssh.com/ssh/sftp/)
for an overview.

**Please note:** We may change the IP addresses of `sftp.vipps.no`.
To ensure that you are whitelisting the correct IP addresses please use the
hostname and DNS, and automatically update your firewall rules if there are DNS changes.

### Directory structure

This is the directory structure (where `[alternative1|alternative2]` indicates two alternatives):

```bash
/settlements/[inbox|archive]/[file extension]/[orgno]/[merchant-serial-number]/[merchant-serial-number]-[settlement-number].[file extension]
```

The `orgno` is the nine-digit organization number for the merchant.
The `merchant-serial-number` (also called MSN) is the unique five or six-digit
ID for the sales unit.

In the examples on this page, the `orgno` is 998724341, and the `merchant-serial-number` is 16655.

Example files, with full path:

```bash
/settlements/inbox/xml/998724341/16655/16655-2000001.xml
/settlements/inbox/pdf/998724341/16655/16655-2000001.pdf
/settlements/archive/csv/998724341/16655/16655-2000001.csv
```

**Please note:**
When a file in `/settlements/inbox` is retrieved, it is automatically
moved to `/settlements/archive`.
See also: [Important information](#important-information).

### Example SFTP session

Below is an example of an SFTP session using the command-line,
with line breaks added for readability.

In this example, the organization number is 998724341 and the MSN is 16655.

Connect to the SFTP service:

```bash
$ sftp sftp.vipps.no
Connected to sftp.vipps.no.
```

Directory listing of the root and `settlements` directories:

```bash
sftp> ls
settlements  

sftp> ls settlements
settlements/archive   
settlements/inbox     
```

Directory listing of the `inbox/`, `inbox/xml/`, `inbox/xml/998724341/`
and `inbox/xml/998724341/16655` directories:

```bash
sftp> ls settlements/inbox
settlements/inbox/csv        
settlements/inbox/pdf        
settlements/inbox/xlsx       
settlements/inbox/xml        
settlements/inbox/xml.zip    

sftp> ls settlements/inbox/xml
settlements/inbox/xml/998724341   

sftp> ls settlements/inbox/xml/998724341
settlements/inbox/xml/998724341/16655    

sftp> ls settlements/inbox/xml/998724341/16655
settlements/inbox/xml/998724341/16655/16655-2000001.xml             
settlements/inbox/xml/998724341/16655/16655-2000002.xml            
settlements/inbox/xml/998724341/16655/16655-2000003.xml             
settlements/inbox/xml/998724341/16655/16655-2000004.xml             
```

Using `mget` to get all the files in the `settlements/inbox/xml/998724341/16655` directory:

```bash
sftp> mget settlements/inbox/xml/998724341/16655/*
Fetching /settlements/inbox/xml/998724341/16655/16655-2000001.xml to 16655-2000001.xml
Fetching /settlements/inbox/xml/998724341/16655/16655-2000002.xml to 16655-2000002.xml
Fetching /settlements/inbox/xml/998724341/16655/16655-2000003.xml to 16655-2000003.xml
Fetching /settlements/inbox/xml/998724341/16655/16655-2000004.xml to 16655-2000004.xml
```

Directory listing in the *local* directory (using the `!` prefix for the `ls` command),
showing the retrieved files, and the `quit` command to end the SFTP session:

```bash
sftp> !ls -1
16655-2000001.xml
16655-2000002.xml
16655-2000003.xml
16655-2000004.xml
sftp> quit
```

All the above is basic SFTP use and should be straight-forward.
If you use a SFTP client, please refer to its user documentation.

</div>
</details>
