<!-- START_METADATA
---
title: HTTP headers
pagination_next: null
pagination_prev: null
---
END_METADATA -->

# HTTP headers

Please use the following Vipps HTTP headers for all requests to the
Vipps APIs. These headers provide useful metadata about the merchant's system,
which help Vipps improve our services, and also helps in investigating problems.

These headers are **required for plugins and partners** and sent by the recent versions of
[the official Vipps plugins](https://vippsas.github.io/vipps-developer-docs/docs/vipps-plugins)
and we recommend all customers with direct integration with the API to also do so.

Partners must always send the `Merchant-Serial-Number` header, and we recommend
that _everyone_ sends it, also when using the merchant's own API keys.
The `Merchant-Serial-Number` header can be used with all API keys, and can
speed up any trouble-shooting of API problems quite a bit.

## Example headers

For example, if the merchant's name is "Acme AS" and they offers three different systems:
point of sale (POS) integration, webshop, and vending machines,
the headers could be:

| Header| Description| Example value for POS | Example for webshop | Example for vending machine | Example for WooCommerce plugin |
|-------------------------------|----------------------------------------------|-----------|----------------|--------|---------------|
| `Vipps-System-Plugin-Name`    | The name of the plugin             | `acme-pos`| `acme-webshop` | `acme-vending` | `vipps-woocommerce` |
| `Vipps-System-Name`           | The name of the solution           | `acme`    | `acme`         | `acme` | `woocommerce` |
| `Vipps-System-Version`        | The version number of the solution | `1.7`     | `2.6`          | `2.6` | `5.4` |
| `Vipps-System-Plugin-Version` | The version number of the plugin   | `3.2`     | `4.3`          | `4.3` | `1.4.1` |
| `Merchant-Serial-Number`      | The MSN for the sale unit                    | `123456`  | `123456`       | `123456` | `123456` |

**Important:** Please use self-explanatory, human readable and reasonably short
values that uniquely identify the system (and plugin).

## Idempotency

Many API requests to Vipps APIs can be retried without any side effects
by providing `Idempotency-key`(in older APIs, this may be called, `Request-Id`) in the header of the
request.

For example, in case the request fails because of network error, it can
safely be retried with the same `Idempotency-key` key. The `Idempotency-key` key must be
generated by the merchant.

You can use any unique id for your idempotency header.

For example:

```json
Idempotency-key: 53784yucxhgjxgh3487shxdgh
```
