settlements/README.md, before:

# Vipps Settlements

# Frequency

Vipps merchants can select daily, weekly or monthly settlement frequency by logging in with BankID on
[portal.vipps.no](https://portal.vipps.no).

Vipps pays merchants every Monday or every 1. of the month, depending on the merchant preference.
It then takes 1-3 bank days before the money reaches the merchant settlement account.

# Settlement flow

The settlement flow is as follows:

1. Day 1: A customer makes a purchase and the transaction is completed. If the purchased product is shipped later, the "day 1" is the day the product is shipped and the customer's account is charged.
2. Day 2: Settlement files are distributed, and are available on [portal.vipps.no](https://portal.vipps.no).
3. Day 3 (the next _bank day_) at 16:00: Payments are made from Vipps.
4. Day 5 (the third _bank day_): The settlement is booked with reference by the bank.

A day starts and ends at midnight, Oslo time: Start `00:00:00`, end `23:59:59` (subseconds not specified).
Please make sure your servers' clocks are correct, e.g. by using [NTP](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Network_Time_Protocol).

A Vipps merchant normally receives daily settlements. This can be changed to weekly, monthly settlements. See [the FAQ](https://www.vipps.no/sporsmal#bedriftspm) for more details.

# Net and gross settlements

Merchants with a "net settlement" contract receive the users' payments
excluding the Vipps fees. On other words: The Vipps fees are deducted
from the settlement amount.

Merchants with a "gross settlement" contract receive the _full amount_
of the users' payments
_including_ the Vipps fees, and are then invoiced for the Vipps fees.

If the merchant's organization number is registered as an EHF recipient,
Vipps sends and EHF. If not, the invoices are sent by email.
To change invoice recipient, please
[contact customer service](https://vipps.no/kontakt-oss/bedrift/vipps/).

See [Availability](#availability) below for information about settlement files
when the balance is negative.

# Settlement report formats

Settlement reports are provided in these formats:

| Format | Example            | Specification      |
| ------ | ------------------ | ------------------ |
| XML    | [Example-Gross.xml](xml/Example-Gross.xml), [Example-Net.xml](xml/Example-Net.xml) | [SettlementReport-3.0.xsd](xml/SettlementReport-3.0.xsd) |
| CSV    | [settlement-report.csv](csv/settlement-report.csv) | - |
| PDF    | [PDF](pdf/Vipps-oppgjørsrapport-16655-2018-09-23.pdf) | - |
| XLSX   | [XLSX](xlsx/Vipps-oppgjørsrapport-16655-2018-09-23.xlsx) | - |

**Important:** Settlements reports are available both with and without personal details of the customer.
This is due to [GDPR](https://ec.europa.eu/info/law/law-topic/data-protection_en), and whether
the data processor is Vipps or the merchant. See [GDPR](#gdpr) below.

Payments made with
[Vippsnummer](https://vipps.no/produkter-og-tjenester/bedrift/ta-betalt-i-butikk/ta-betalt-med-vipps/)
do not have an `orderId`.
If you need an `orderId` to identify a payment, you need to use
[Vipps på nett](https://vipps.no/produkter-og-tjenester/bedrift/ta-betalt-paa-nett/ta-betalt-paa-nett/).
See also the Vipps eCom API.

## Availability

Settlement reports are available by 12:00 noon. The reports are generated around
01-03 at night, but may be delayed due to technical changes, maintenance in
various systems, etc.

**Important:** If a merchant has refunded more money than the sum of payments,
so that the balance is negative, Vipps will not create settlement reports.
Vipps covers the negative balance for a (short) while, but if it persists,
Vipps will send an invoice to the merchant to settle the balance.

### Daily reports

The settlement reports are available by 12:00 noon.

### Weekly reports

The settlement report is generated on Mondays, by 12:00 noon.

## Monthly reports

The settlement report is generated on the 1st of the month, by 12:00 noon.

# GDPR

The settlement reports available by SFTP (see below) do not contain detailed information about the
transactions. Reports containing personal information requires a data processor agreement.
Due to this, reports with personal information can only be downloaded by logging in with
BankID on [portal.vipps.no](https://portal.vipps.no) and accepting the terms there.

The Norwegian text from [portal.vipps.no](https://portal.vipps.no):

_Velger du å laste ned rapporter med personinformasjon blir bedriften din selvstendig behandlingsansvarlig for personinformasjonen som lastes ned. Dette betyr at bedriften din er selv ansvarlig for å sikre etterlevelse av peronvernreglene. For mer informasjon, vennligst se Vipps [vilkår](https://www.vipps.no/vilkar/) for bruk._

# portal.vipps.no

Customers can log in to [portal.vipps.no](https://portal.vipps.no), choose "Rapporter" and download reports
in the formats mentioned above. Reports with personal details of the customers are also available.

# SFTP report service

The SFTP report service is used for downloading settlement reports.
SFTP-users are created, associated with a public key, and given access to the
reports of one or more merchants.
The reports are generated dynamically upon request.

These reports do not contain personal details of the customers.

Details: See the [sftp-report-service](sftp-report-service/) folder.

## XML

Details: See the [xml](xml/) folder.

## CSV

Details: See the [csv](csv/) folder.

## PDF

Details: See the [pdf](pdf/) folder.

## OCR

OCR files are no longer provided by Vipps.
Documentation for the legacy solution: [Vipps Faktura](ocr/vipps-invoice-api-vipps-faktura.pdf).

Details: See the [ocr](ocr/) folder.

## Questions?

We're always happy to help with code or other questions you might have!

For customer-specific questions about settlements, please contact operations@vipps.no.

For general questions: Please create an [issue](https://github.com/vippsas/vipps-ecom-api/issues),
a [pull request](https://github.com/vippsas/vipps-ecom-api/pulls),
or [contact us](https://github.com/vippsas/vipps-developers/blob/master/contact.md).

Commit message:

Additional info regarding recurring payments

settlements/README.md, after:

# Vipps Settlements

# Frequency

Vipps merchants can select daily, weekly or monthly settlement frequency by logging in with BankID on
[portal.vipps.no](https://portal.vipps.no).

Vipps pays merchants every Monday or every 1. of the month, depending on the merchant preference.
It then takes 1-3 bank days before the money reaches the merchant settlement account.

# Settlement flow

The settlement flow is as follows:

1. Day 1: A customer makes a purchase and the transaction is completed. If the purchased product is shipped later, the "day 1" is the day the product is shipped and the customer's account is charged.
2. Day 2: Settlement files are distributed, and are available on [portal.vipps.no](https://portal.vipps.no).
3. Day 3 (the next _bank day_) at 16:00: Payments are made from Vipps.
4. Day 5 (the third _bank day_): The settlement is booked with reference by the bank.

A day starts and ends at midnight, Oslo time: Start `00:00:00`, end `23:59:59` (subseconds not specified).
Please make sure your servers' clocks are correct, e.g. by using [NTP](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Network_Time_Protocol).

A Vipps merchant normally receives daily settlements. This can be changed to weekly, monthly settlements. See [the FAQ](https://www.vipps.no/sporsmal#bedriftspm) for more details.

# Net and gross settlements

Merchants with a "net settlement" contract receive the users' payments
excluding the Vipps fees. On other words: The Vipps fees are deducted
from the settlement amount.

Merchants with a "gross settlement" contract receive the _full amount_
of the users' payments
_including_ the Vipps fees, and are then invoiced for the Vipps fees.

If the merchant's organization number is registered as an EHF recipient,
Vipps sends and EHF. If not, the invoices are sent by email.
To change invoice recipient, please
[contact customer service](https://vipps.no/kontakt-oss/bedrift/vipps/).

See [Availability](#availability) below for information about settlement files
when the balance is negative.

# Settlement report formats

Settlement reports are provided in these formats:

| Format | Example            | Specification      |
| ------ | ------------------ | ------------------ |
| XML    | [Example-Gross.xml](xml/Example-Gross.xml), [Example-Net.xml](xml/Example-Net.xml) | [SettlementReport-3.0.xsd](xml/SettlementReport-3.0.xsd) |
| CSV    | [settlement-report.csv](csv/settlement-report.csv) | - |
| PDF    | [PDF](pdf/Vipps-oppgjørsrapport-16655-2018-09-23.pdf) | - |
| XLSX   | [XLSX](xlsx/Vipps-oppgjørsrapport-16655-2018-09-23.xlsx) | - |

**Important:** Settlements reports are available both with and without personal details of the customer.
This is due to [GDPR](https://ec.europa.eu/info/law/law-topic/data-protection_en), and whether
the data processor is Vipps or the merchant. See [GDPR](#gdpr) below.

Payments made with
[Vippsnummer](https://vipps.no/produkter-og-tjenester/bedrift/ta-betalt-i-butikk/ta-betalt-med-vipps/)
do not have an `orderId`.
If you need an `orderId` to identify a payment, you need to use
[Vipps på nett](https://vipps.no/produkter-og-tjenester/bedrift/ta-betalt-paa-nett/ta-betalt-paa-nett/).
See also the Vipps eCom API.

### Additional info for recurring payments
For recurring payments the `ordreID` is an optional field.
If `ordreID` is not sent, the settlement report shows `chargeID` in the `orderID` field.
If `ordreID` is in use, we replace the `chargeID` value, with `orderID`

## Availability

Settlement reports are available by 12:00 noon. The reports are generated around
01-03 at night, but may be delayed due to technical changes, maintenance in
various systems, etc.

**Important:** If a merchant has refunded more money than the sum of payments,
so that the balance is negative, Vipps will not create settlement reports.
Vipps covers the negative balance for a (short) while, but if it persists,
Vipps will send an invoice to the merchant to settle the balance.

### Daily reports

The settlement reports are available by 12:00 noon.

### Weekly reports

The settlement report is generated on Mondays, by 12:00 noon.

## Monthly reports

The settlement report is generated on the 1st of the month, by 12:00 noon.

# GDPR

The settlement reports available by SFTP (see below) do not contain detailed information about the
transactions. Reports containing personal information requires a data processor agreement.
Due to this, reports with personal information can only be downloaded by logging in with
BankID on [portal.vipps.no](https://portal.vipps.no) and accepting the terms there.

The Norwegian text from [portal.vipps.no](https://portal.vipps.no):

_Velger du å laste ned rapporter med personinformasjon blir bedriften din selvstendig behandlingsansvarlig for personinformasjonen som lastes ned. Dette betyr at bedriften din er selv ansvarlig for å sikre etterlevelse av peronvernreglene. For mer informasjon, vennligst se Vipps [vilkår](https://www.vipps.no/vilkar/) for bruk._

# portal.vipps.no

Customers can log in to [portal.vipps.no](https://portal.vipps.no), choose "Rapporter" and download reports
in the formats mentioned above. Reports with personal details of the customers are also available.

# SFTP report service

The SFTP report service is used for downloading settlement reports.
SFTP-users are created, associated with a public key, and given access to the
reports of one or more merchants.
The reports are generated dynamically upon request.

These reports do not contain personal details of the customers.

Details: See the [sftp-report-service](sftp-report-service/) folder.

## XML

Details: See the [xml](xml/) folder.

## CSV

Details: See the [csv](csv/) folder.

## PDF

Details: See the [pdf](pdf/) folder.

## OCR

OCR files are no longer provided by Vipps.
Documentation for the legacy solution: [Vipps Faktura](ocr/vipps-invoice-api-vipps-faktura.pdf).

Details: See the [ocr](ocr/) folder.

## Questions?

We're always happy to help with code or other questions you might have!

For customer-specific questions about settlements, please contact operations@vipps.no.

For general questions: Please create an [issue](https://github.com/vippsas/vipps-ecom-api/issues),
a [pull request](https://github.com/vippsas/vipps-ecom-api/pulls),
or [contact us](https://github.com/vippsas/vipps-developers/blob/master/contact.md).
