testdata/README.md, before:

# Vipps Test Data

**Work in progress!**

The [Vipps Test environment (MT)](https://github.com/vippsas/vipps-developers#the-vipps-test-environment-mt) contains synthetic data useful for testing.

## Users

| customerId | NIN (fødselsnummer) | MSISDN (phone number) | First name   | Last name |
| ---------- | ------------------- | --------------------- | ------------ | --------- |
| 10003301	 | 01032300371         | 4797777776            | Willhelm Fos | Kluvstad  |

## Merchants

| Name               | Org. number | Account number |
| ------------------ |------------ | -------------- |
| Vipps Teknologi AS | 918130047   | 15038366383    |
| Merchant test account | -        | 18000000000 |

# Creating more test data

## Credit card numbers

Nets offers a series of credit cards with pre-defined characteristics: https://shop.nets.eu/web/partners/test-cards
Response codes: https://shop.nets.eu/web/partners/response-codes

BIN Codes: Credit Card & Debit Card Number Tools: https://www.bincodes.com/bin-creditcard-generator/

## Faker

The Faker Python library may also be useful: https://github.com/joke2k/faker

## DNB Open Banking

DNB Open banking has some useful tools for generating synthetic "Norwegian" data: https://github.com/DNBbank/dnbtestdata

The file [fake-people-100k.json](fake-people-100k.json)
contains 100,000 synthetic users in JSON format (took ~30 minutes to create), like this:

```json
{
  "ssn": "07073319586",
  "firstName": "Berit",
  "lastName": "Birkeland",
  "dateOfBirth": "1933-07-07",
  "gender": "Female",
  "nationality": "Norwegian",
  "address": {
    "street": "Sivertsentjernet 55H",
    "postalCode": "2997",
    "city": "Sørensen",
    "country": "NO"
  },
  "phoneNumber": "08 67 82 12",
  "email": "birkeland1933@example.com",
  "idType": "passport"
}
```

Commit message:

Added: Test user/merchant details

testdata/README.md, after:

# Vipps Test Data

**Work in progress!**

The [Vipps Test environment (MT)](https://github.com/vippsas/vipps-developers#the-vipps-test-environment-mt) contains synthetic data useful for testing.

## Users

All Vipps customers get a dedicated test user with a (for the test environmenty)
unique phone number. The common test user below may be used in situations where
the dedicated test user, for some reason, can not be used.

| customerId | NIN (fødselsnummer) | MSISDN (phone number) | First name   | Last name |
| ---------- | ------------------- | --------------------- | ------------ | --------- |
| 10003301	 | 01032300371         | 4797777776            | Willhelm Fos | Kluvstad  |

## Merchants

All Vipps customers get a dedicated test merchant. The test merchants below are common 
for all customers.

| Name               | Org. number | Account number |
| ------------------ |------------ | -------------- |
| Vipps Teknologi AS | 918130047   | 15038366383    |
| Merchant test account | -        | 18000000000 |

# Creating more test data

## Credit card numbers

Nets offers a series of credit cards with pre-defined characteristics: https://shop.nets.eu/web/partners/test-cards
Response codes: https://shop.nets.eu/web/partners/response-codes

BIN Codes: Credit Card & Debit Card Number Tools: https://www.bincodes.com/bin-creditcard-generator/

## Faker

The Faker Python library may also be useful: https://github.com/joke2k/faker

## DNB Open Banking

DNB Open banking has some useful tools for generating synthetic "Norwegian" data: https://github.com/DNBbank/dnbtestdata

The file [fake-people-100k.json](fake-people-100k.json)
contains 100,000 synthetic users in JSON format (took ~30 minutes to create), like this:

```json
{
  "ssn": "07073319586",
  "firstName": "Berit",
  "lastName": "Birkeland",
  "dateOfBirth": "1933-07-07",
  "gender": "Female",
  "nationality": "Norwegian",
  "address": {
    "street": "Sivertsentjernet 55H",
    "postalCode": "2997",
    "city": "Sørensen",
    "country": "NO"
  },
  "phoneNumber": "08 67 82 12",
  "email": "birkeland1933@example.com",
  "idType": "passport"
}
```
